===PAGE 116===
Magic
is cast multiple times, and only by the most recent casting of 
that spell. For example, successfully casting the compel spell on 
a target already under the effect of another compel spell would 
replace the effect of the older casting. Similarly, if a creature is 
in the overlapping areas of two acid rain spells, it suffers only 
the effects of the one most recently cast.
Triggered
Some spells can be cast using a triggered action instead of 
an action. In such cases, the spell’s entry states the trigger for 
casting it this way and any changes to the effect for doing so.
Sacrifice
Some spells allow you to expend their casting to cast 
a different spell, even if the other spell has no castings 
remaining or if you don’t know that spell. Sacrificing a spell 
in this way takes an action, just like casting a spell normally.
Permanence
The effects of some spells can be made permanent by 
performing specified actions.
Air
Spells of the Air tradition harness the power of the wind, 
allowing casters to direct it where they will. Many users 
of Air magic discover the tradition by forging a bond 
with wind genies encountered in high places or in areas 
where the air is never still. Others come to it by studying 
the ancient writings of accomplished elementalists and 
mastering the mystic phrases required to control the air.
	 Once you have discovered this tradition, the air always 
moves around you. It stirs your hair, rustles your clothing, 
and whispers in your ears. Some find the constant motion 
maddening. You might take comfort from the ever-present 
companionship of your favored element. Each time you 
cast an Air spell, the air moving around you picks up 
speed—just enough to cause flames to flicker and to disturb 
lightweight objects.
STIR THE AIR	
AIR UTILITY 0
Area A sphere with a 2-yard radius centered on a point you 
can reach
Duration 1 minute
You create a light breeze in the area, which moves with you 
for the duration. The breeze clears away odors and dust, 
scatters lightweight objects such as papers, extinguishes 
candles, and causes larger flames to flicker and dance. 
Creatures in the area that attack you with thrown or ranged 
weapons make their attack rolls with 1 bane.
WIND BLAST	
AIR ATTACK 0
Target One creature or object within short range
A powerful wind assails the target. Make a Will attack roll 
against the target’s Strength. On a success, the wind moves 
the target 1d6 yards away from you.
Attack Roll 20+ The target falls prone at the end of this 
movement.
EVOKE GALE	
AIR ATTACK 1
Area A cone, 3 yards long, originating from a point within 
short range
A howling wind disperses vapors, fog, smoke, and gas from 
the area. Unprotected flames gutter out, and lightweight 
objects are blown to the nearest edge of the area. Each 
creature in the area must get a success on a Strength 
challenge roll or be moved 1d6 yards away from the origin 
point. Flying creatures make the roll with 1 bane.
FLENSE	
AIR ATTACK 1
Target One creature or object within short range
Windborne grit scours your target. Make a Will attack roll 
against the target’s Strength. On a success, the target 
takes 2d6 + 3 damage. A living creature that becomes 
incapacitated by this damage dies instantly, its flesh (if any) 
stripped from its bones.
Attack Roll 20+ The target takes 2d6 extra damage.
GLIDE	
AIR UTILITY 1
Target One creature within long range
Duration 1 minute
Triggered You use a triggered action to cast this spell when 
you see the target fall. For the duration, the target takes no 
damage from landing after a fall. If it continues to fall after 
the effect ends, it takes damage based on where it continues 
falling from.
STILL THE AIR	
AIR UTILITY 2
Area A sphere with a 4-yard radius centered on a point 
within medium range
Duration 1 hour
For the duration, no sound emanates from or reaches into the 
area. Creatures in the area are deafened and are immune to 
any sound-based attack, such as the thunderclap spell.
THUNDERCLAP	
AIR ATTACK 2
Area A sphere with a 10-yard radius centered on a point 
within medium range
A wave of thunderous noise spreads out from the center 
of the area, dealing 1d6 + 1 damage to everything in it. 
Each creature in the area must make a Strength challenge 
roll, taking half the damage on a success. On a failure, the 
creature also becomes deafened for 1 minute.
BESTOW FLIGHT	
AIR UTILITY 3
Target One creature you can reach
Duration 1 hour
You touch the target. It can fly at its normal Speed for the 
duration.
FLING	
AIR ATTACK 3
Area A cylinder, 4 yards tall with a radius of 4 yards, 
centered on a point within long range
A powerful blast of wind erupts from the origin point. Each 
creature in the area must make a Strength challenge roll; Size 
1 or smaller creatures make the roll with 1 bane. On a 
115
7

