===PAGE 53===
PLaying the Game
Escape
You can use this action if you are grabbed. Make a Strength 
or Agility attack roll against the Strength of the creature 
that has grabbed you. A success removes the grabbed 
affliction and lets you move up to half your Speed. This 
movement does not trigger free attacks from the creature 
that had grabbed you. (See Grabbed for information on the 
effects of being grabbed, and Grab for how to grab.)
Feint
Choose one target creature within short range of you that 
can see you. Make an Agility attack roll against the target’s 
Perception. On a success, you make the next attack roll 
against the target’s Defense or Agility before the end of the 
next round with 2 boons. Alternatively, your movement 
does not trigger free attacks from the target for 1 round.
Grab
You must have at least one hand free to grab, and you 
cannot be grabbing another creature. Choose one target 
creature within your reach that has a physical body (not a 
spirit, for example) and make a Strength or Agility attack 
roll against the target’s Agility. If you choose a creature you 
are already grabbing, you automatically get a success.
	 On a success, the target becomes grabbed until the end 
of the next round. If you are prevented from using actions 
(such as because you are dazed, stunned, or unconscious), 
the grabbed affliction ends. The grabbed affliction also 
ends if you move or are moved to a position where you can 
no longer reach the grabbed target. (See Grabbed for more 
information on the effects of being grabbed, and Escape for 
how to escape a grab.)
Knock Down
Choose one target creature within your reach. Make 
a Strength attack roll against the target’s Agility. If the 
target is larger than you, make this roll with 1 bane for 
each point of Size it is larger. You make this roll with 1 
boon if the target is smaller than you. On a success, the 
target falls prone.
Pull
Choose one target creature of your Size or smaller that you 
are grabbing. Make a Strength attack roll against the target’s 
Strength. On a success, you move up to half your Speed 
and the grabbed creature moves with you so that it remains 
within your reach.
Shove
Choose one target creature within your reach. Make a 
Strength attack roll against the target’s Strength. If the 
target is larger than you, you make this roll with 1 bane 
for each point of Size it is larger. You make this roll with 
1 boon if the target is smaller than you. On a success, you 
move the target 1 yard away from you, plus a number of 
yards equal to your Strength modifier (minimum total 
distance 1 yard).
Charge
When you use an action to charge, you make attack 
rolls and challenge rolls with 1 bane until the end of the 
round. Move up to your Speed. At any point during your 
movement, make one attack with a melee weapon or with 
an attribute to knock down or shove a creature.
Attacking Worn  
or Carried Objects
You can attack an object that another creature wears or 
carries. You make the attack roll with 2 banes. The GM 
might decide that certain objects are immune or resistant to 
some forms of attack. An arrow isn’t going to break a sword, 
for example.
Situational Banes  
to Attack Rolls
One or more banes might apply to your attack rolls, based 
on the circumstances under which you make the attack. 
These are in addition to any banes or boons included in the 
attack. The following table summarizes the most common 
situations.
Situational Banes
Target is . . .
Effect
Half covered
1 bane
Three-quarters covered
2 banes
Totally covered
Automatic failure
Partially obscured:  
In a partially obscured area
1 bane
Heavily obscured:  
In a heavily obscured area
2 banes
Totally obscured:  
In a totally obscured area
3 banes*
Weather, terrain: In inclement 
weather or covering terrain
1 or more banes
*You must guess the target’s location (see Hide).
52
2

