===PAGE 6===
An energy field envelops the world described in 
Shadow of the Demon Lord, an echo of the forces 
responsible for the creation of reality. This energy, 
which most refer to as magic, makes the impossible 
possible. It permits the existence of all manner of 
strange beings and bestows otherworldly abilities 
to those who learn how to wield it. This energy 
radiates from relics strange and dangerous, items of 
incalculable power forged at a time when the world 
was young. It can be seen in the landscape, such as in 
the floating mountains that drift across the Desolation 
and in the hidden kingdoms that house the faerie folk. 
Magic is everywhere, waiting to be manipulated by 
those with the talent and training to do so.
	 With the force of magic, you can twist the minds of 
others and bend them to your will. You can hurl flames 
from your fingertips, soar through the air, raise the 
dead, and bring about countless other effects limited 
only by your imagination. Some who come to wield 
magic have studied under a master, others find the gift 
within themselves, and still others perform miracles 
through faith alone. And though the spells these 
casters use might differ, all the magical energy comes 
from the same source, the inexhaustible wellspring 
that flows through all things.
	 Shadow of the Demon Lord and several supplements, 
from Terrible Beauty to installments of the Poisoned Pages 
digital series, have revealed dozens of traditions and 
hundreds of spells, yet all this information does not come 
close to encompassing what magic is capable of. Occult 
Philosophy is the definitive magical resource for the game, 
bringing the total number of spells to nearly 1,500. In 
this book are spells of every rank, from 0 to 10, for every 
tradition in the game, plus one new tradition—Madness, 
for casters who want to test the bounds of sanity. 
	 Throughout the spell descriptions in chapter 1, you 
will find mentions of certain creatures, usually those 
summoned, called, or created by the casting of spells. 
When the creature’s name is shown in boldface, you 
can find information about that creature in Shadow of 
the Demon Lord.
	 To round out the presentation, chapter 3 offers a 
large selection of new expert paths and master paths to 
give magic-using characters even more options, as well 
as expanded rules for extending characters’ careers 
beyond level 10.
5

